[IMP] accounting/l10n_ar: liquidity product direct sales (#8009)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/finance/fiscal_localizations/argentina.rst

.. seealso::
   :doc:`Client account creation <../../websites/ecommerce/checkout_payment_shipping/checkout>`

Liquidity Product Direct Sales
----------------------------------------

The liquidity product direct sale is used, for example, in the cases where sales are made by 
the order of a third-party.

For these cases, the seller and the proprietary company of the goods, will be able to register 
their corresponding sales and purchase. 

> This feature is included when installing the Argentinian EDI module (l10n_ar_edi). To install 
> or update this module, go to :guidable:’Apps > Remove filters > Search ‘l10n_ar_edi’’.
> 
> .. image:: ecuador/l10n_ar_edi.png
>    :align: center 
>    :alt: l10n_ar EDI Module

Reviewer: Can reference the Install documentation and no need to include an image of the module on the Apps screen :)
```suggestion
This feature is included when :ref:`installing <general/install>` the *Argentinian EDI* module
(`l10n_ar_edi`).
```

.. note::
	The Argentinian EDI module is dependent on the previous installation of the Invoicing or 
Accounting Apps and the Argentinian base module (l10n_ar).

Configurations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Document Types
**************

This feature includes the addition of the following document types: ‘23', '24', '25', '26', 
'27', '28', '33', '43', '45', '46', '48', '58', '60', '61', ‘150', '151', '157', '158', '161', 
'162', '164', '166', '167', '171', '172', '180', '182', '186', '188', '332'.

> It is important to note that by default these document types are inactive. For the workflow 
> to work, it is necessary to activate these documents. To find these documents, remove all filters 
> in the menu ‘Tipo de Documentos’ and activate them by toggling the option ‘Active’.
> 
> .. image:: ecuador/l10n_ar_document_types.png
>    :align: center 
>    :alt: l10n_ar Document Types

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is important to note that by default these document types are *inactive*. For the workflow
to work, it is necessary to *activate* these documents.

To do so, navigate to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Document Types` and remove
any active filters. Then find the documents and activate them by toggling the option
:guilabel:`Active`.
```

> Purchase Journal
> ****************

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Purchase journal
****************
```

A purchase journal is needed to generate an electronic vendor bill with a document type ‘Liquidity Product’ 
for the order for “company A”. This journal will have to have the sync with AFIP active as this electronic 

> document will be sent to the AFIP.

Reviewer: Hi @rps-odoo, does the user have to create this purchase journal? If so, what are the steps to do so? Please explain how to navigate within the Accounting app to create a purchase journal, and then detail the fields the user needs to complete the configuration :)

Author: Hi @samueljlieber this is my suggestion:

To modify the existing purchase journal, or create a new purchase journal, navigate to
:menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Journals`. Then, click the :guilabel:`New` button,
and fill in the following required information:

- :guilabel:`Type`: select :guilabel:`Purchase` from the drop-down menu for vendor bill journals.
- :guilabel:`Use Documents`: check this field for the journal to be able to generate electronic
  documents (in this case the electronic purchase invoice).
- :guilabel:`Is AFIP POS`: select :guilabel: check this field for the journal to be able to generate electronic documents (in this case liquidity product bill).
- :guilabel:`AFIP POS System`: select :guilabel:`Electroni Invoice - Web Service` from the drop-down menu in order to send the electronic document to AFIP via Web Service.
- :guilabel:`AFIP POS Number`: is the number configured in the AFIP to identify the operations related to this AFIP POS.
- guilabel:`AFIP POS Address`: is the field related to the commercial address registered for the POS, which is usually the same address as the company. For example, if a company has multiple stores (fiscal locations) then the AFIP will require the company to have one AFIP POS per location. This location will be printed in the invoice report

.. image:: ecuador/l10n_ar_purchase_journal.png
   :align: center 
   :alt: l10n_ar Purchase Journal Configuration

> Sales Journal
> *************

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sales journal
*************
```

A sales journal will be needed to register the invoice when the owner of a product sells its good to the third 

> party that then will sell this. This journal will not have any sync with AFIP as the invoice will not be electronic.

Author: @samueljlieber my suggestion:

To modify the existing purchase journal, or create a new purchase journal, navigate to
:menuselection:Accounting --> Configuration --> Journals. Then, click the :guilabel:New button,
and fill in the following required information:

- :guilabel:`Type`: select :guilabel:`Sales` from the drop-down menu for sale invoice journals.
- :guilabel:`Use Documents`: check this field for the journal to be able to select the electronic
  document type (in this case the electronic invoice).

.. image:: ecuador/l10n_ar_sales_journal.png
   :align: center 
   :alt: l10n_ar Sales Journal Configuration

> Invoicing Flow for Liquidity Products
> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Invoicing flow
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
```

.. seealso::
   :doc:`Client account creation <../../websites/ecommerce/checkout_payment_shipping/checkout>`

Liquidity product direct sales
------------------------------

The liquidity product direct sale is used in cases where sales are made to a third party. In these
cases, the seller and the proprietary company of the goods can register their corresponding sales
and purchase. This feature is included when :ref:`installing <general/install>` the *Argentinian
Electronic Invoicing* module (`l10n_ar_edi`).

Configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Document types
**************

> This feature includes the addition of the following document types: 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 33, 43,

Author: I agree with your comment here. @samueljlieber

45, 46, 48, 58, 60, 61, 150, 151, 157, 158, 161, 162, 164, 166, 167, 171, 172, 180, 182, 186, 188,

> 332.

Reviewer 2: I don't see those documents, but I didn't fully configure my base runbot (17.0) and test db (17.1) aven though I should have installed all the proper modules. Since you mention installing the AR e-invoicing module is required, you could also say it should be configured? Or not mention the installation at all.

Author: @xpl-odoo @samueljlieber in this case I think we can avoid mention it at all. We can remove this section talking about the new document types added.

.. important::
   Note that by default these document types are *inactive*. For the workflow to work, it is

>    necessary to *activate* these documents.

Author: @xpl-odoo @samueljlieber Agree on suggestion. Not all document type should be activated, it depends on the needs of the user.

> To activate them, navigate to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Document Types` and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To activate them, navigate to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Document Types` and
```
There are two places to find 'Document Types' - Under the Accounting and the AFIP section. So you specify: AFIP: Document Types (as needed)
![image](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/assets/70884563/1ca4af6e-1876-4c0a-b56d-e10594579b3f)

remove any active filters. Then, find the documents and activate them by toggling the option

> :guilabel:`Active`.

Reviewer 2: The toggle don't work for me (17.0 runbot, 17.1 test db, base with the required modules installed, but not the full configuration)

Author: @xpl-odoo @samueljlieber you are right, in that case, I suggest the following:

Then, find the documents and activate them by selecting them (checkbox), go to :guilabel:'Actions > Unarchive'.

Purchase journal
****************

A purchase journal is needed to generate an electronic vendor bill with a document type *Liquidity

> Product*. This journal needs to have an active synchronization with the AFIP as this electronic
> document will be sent to the AFIP.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Product*. This journal needs to be synchronized with the AFIP, as it contains electronic
documents.
```
The meaning is a bit unclear, not sure I got it right.

Author: My suggestion:

This journal needs to be synchronized with the AFIP as it will be used the generate the liquidity product electronic document.

> To modify the existing purchase journal, or create a new purchase journal, navigate to
> :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Journals`. Then, click the :guilabel:`New` button,
> and fill in the following required information:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To modify the existing purchase journal or create a new one, navigate to
:menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Journals`. Then, select the existing purchase journal or click the :guilabel:`New` button,
and fill in the following required information:
```

> - :guilabel:`Type`: select :guilabel:`Purchase` from the drop-down menu for vendor bill journals.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Type`: select :guilabel:`Purchase`.
```
The second part doesn't seem necessary and affs confusion.

- :guilabel:`Use Documents`: check this field for the journal to select the electronic document type

>   (in this case *sales account* and *liquid product*).

Reviewer 2: I would separate the instruction (select X) from the additional info on what it does exactly, especially when it's not relevant to get the configuration right. It's easier to follow that way.

- :guilabel:`Is AFIP POS`: select this field for the journal to be able to generate electronic
  documents (in this case *sales account* and *liquid product*).
- :guilabel:`AFIP POS System`: select :guilabel:`Electronic Invoice - Web Service` from the
  drop-down menu in order to send the electronic document to AFIP via web service.
- :guilabel:`AFIP POS Number`: is the number configured in the AFIP to identify the operations
  related to this AFIP POS.
- :guilabel:`AFIP POS Address`: is the field related to the commercial address registered for the
  POS, which is usually the same address as the company. For example, if a company has multiple
  stores (fiscal locations) then the AFIP will require the company to have one AFIP POS per
  location. This location will be printed in the invoice report.

.. image:: argentina/l10n-ar-purchase-journal.png
   :align: center
   :alt: l10n_ar Purchase Journal Configuration.

Sales journal
*************

A sales journal is needed to register the invoice when a product is sold to a third party that will
then sell the same product. This journal will not be synced with AFIP as the invoice will not be
electronic.

> To modify the existing purchase journal or create a new purchase journal, navigate to
> :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Journals`. Then, click the :guilabel:`New` button,
> and fill in the following required information:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To modify the existing sales journal or create a new one, navigate to
:menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Journals`. Then, selecting the sales journal or click the :guilabel:`New` button,
and fill in the following required information:
```

> - :guilabel:`Type`: select :guilabel:`Sales` from the drop-down menu for sale invoice journals.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Type`: select :guilabel:`Sales`.
```

- :guilabel:`Use Documents`: check this field on the journal to select the electronic document type
  (in this case the electronic invoice).

.. image:: argentina/l10n-ar-sales-journal.png
   :align: center
   :alt: l10n_ar Sales Journal Configuration.

Invoicing flow
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Once the configurations are all set, the *Liquidity Product Vendor Bill* will be generated by the
company that is selling the product on behalf of another party. For example, a distributor of a

> specific product.

Reviewer 2: That seems clearer than what is explained in the intro. Maybe better introduce the feature?
